README.md, before:

# Backend and Frontend of the Pareto Nostr client

This is a monorepo with both Elixir/Phoenix backend and Elm frontend.

The backend delivers for certain routes HTML metadata for nostr articles, communities, and profiles:
- /a/naddr1qvzqq...            - metadata for long-form article
- /c/ncomm1qvzqq...            - metadata for Nostr community
- /e/nevent1q...               - metadata for Nostr article
- /u/bella@zaps.lol            - metadata for Nostr profile
- /u/bella@zaps.lol/identifier - metadata for Nostr article
- /p/nprofile1qyt8w... 	       - metadata for Nostr profile

Additionally a static landing page is delivered for the home route.

## Backend configuration

These environment variables need to be set
- **PHX_HOST**: The domain where the server is accessed from external (e. g. pareto.space)
- **PORT**: The port where the server accepts connections (e. g. 4000)
- **SECRET_KEY_BASE**: The secret key generated by *mix phx.gen.secret*.
- **POSTHOG_API_KEY**: The API key of a PostHog server
- **POSTHOG_HOST**: Host name of a PostHog server (e. g. https://eu.i.posthog.com)

## Adding Nostr users

Additional users @pareto.space can be added at nostr\_backend/lib/nostr\_backend\_web/controllers/nostr\_controller.ex

## Frontend debugging

To enable debugging, write the following command in the browser console:
`localStorage.setItem('debug', 'ndk*,pareto-client*');`

To disable debugging, type
`localStorage.removeItem('debug');`

Make sure you display all log levels in the console in order to see debug messages.

Commit message:

embed Odysee videos in article

README.md, after:

# Backend and Frontend of the Pareto Nostr client

This is a monorepo with both Elixir/Phoenix backend and Elm frontend.

The backend delivers for certain routes HTML metadata for nostr articles, communities, and profiles:
- /a/naddr1qvzqq...            - metadata for long-form article
- /c/ncomm1qvzqq...            - metadata for Nostr community
- /e/nevent1q...               - metadata for Nostr article
- /u/bella@zaps.lol            - metadata for Nostr profile
- /u/bella@zaps.lol/identifier - metadata for Nostr article
- /p/nprofile1qyt8w... 	       - metadata for Nostr profile

Additionally a static landing page is delivered for the home route.

There's an API available that redirects to the image of OpenGraph metadata:
/api/opengraph/image??url=...
This is being used for thumbnails of Odysee videos

## Backend configuration

These environment variables need to be set
- **PHX_HOST**: The domain where the server is accessed from external (e. g. pareto.space)
- **PORT**: The port where the server accepts connections (e. g. 4000)
- **SECRET_KEY_BASE**: The secret key generated by *mix phx.gen.secret*.
- **POSTHOG_API_KEY**: The API key of a PostHog server
- **POSTHOG_HOST**: Host name of a PostHog server (e. g. https://eu.i.posthog.com)

## Adding Nostr users

Additional users @pareto.space can be added at nostr\_backend/lib/nostr\_backend\_web/controllers/nostr\_controller.ex

## Frontend debugging

To enable debugging, write the following command in the browser console:
`localStorage.setItem('debug', 'ndk*,pareto-client*');`

To disable debugging, type
`localStorage.removeItem('debug');`

Make sure you display all log levels in the console in order to see debug messages.
